---
layout: post
title: "Books 2018"
date: 2018-04-29 15:16:00
summary: Books that I have read this year
description: Retrospective of books I have read this year
categories: misc
---

Besides the usual technical-related books, I've tried to read at least 2 books each months.
In restrospect, I couldn't archive it. Anyway, will try my best next year.

These are the books I've read this year(in no specific order) along with some of my comment.

### Daemon
Story about a computer program(AI) which manipulate and create an evolution against cooperations.
The computer-related fact is quite accurate.
I will read the second book next year.

### Ready player one
Classic book of the genre. In a future where human immerse in a large MMORPG to escape reality.
Also about a computer program which manipulate players to find its secret.

### Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep
I really like this book, the atmosphere about a dystopian is intricate, although it's quite short.

### The Three-Body Problem
The book's premise is fascinating, about extraterestial intelligent, but I don't like the narration, feel like there is no coherent between the storyline.
I heard that the second book get better, may give it a try next year.

### Essays after eighty
A small book about memoir of a eighty author.

### The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck

### Oryx and Crake
Another book about dystopian future where human is almost washed and some kind of gene-altered human-like species.

### Why We Sleep
Explain in detail about the reason of our sleep, what happen if we don't sleep enough.
There is another book, "The sleep solution", which go in detail about how to sleep. I will read this one next year.

### Leonardo Da Vinci
Life and work of Leonardo Da Vinci. I rarely read biography but the man's life is so extraordinary and mysterious.
The book also got me interested in The Renaissance, I will find other books about this topic next year.

### To Kill a Mockingbird
Classic book, well writteen, I very much love the monologue of Atticus at the trial.

### The Sympathizer

### Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies

### Bad blood
The last book I read of 2018.
